.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md, before:

# Code of Conduct

Contact: hello@vrtk.io

## Why have a Code of Conduct?

As contributors and maintainers of this project, we are committed to providing a friendly, safe and welcoming environment for all, regardless of age, disability, gender, nationality, race, religion, sexuality, or similar personal characteristic.

The goal of the Code of Conduct is to specify a baseline standard of behavior so that people with different social values and communication styles can talk about VRTK effectively, productively, and respectfully, even in face of disagreements. The Code of Conduct also provides a mechanism for resolving conflicts in the community when they arise.

## Our Values

These are the values VRTK developers should aspire to:

  * Be friendly and welcoming
  * Be patient
    * Remember that people have varying communication styles and that not everyone is using their native language. (Meaning and tone can be lost in translation.)
  * Be thoughtful
    * Productive communication requires effort. Think about how your words will be interpreted.
    * Remember that sometimes it is best to refrain entirely from commenting.
  * Be respectful
    * In particular, respect differences of opinion. It is important that we resolve disagreements and differing views constructively.
  * Avoid destructive behavior
    * Derailing: stay on topic; if you want to talk about something else, start a new conversation.
    * Unconstructive criticism: don't merely decry the current state of affairs; offer (or at least solicit) suggestions as to how things may be improved.
    * Snarking (pithy, unproductive, sniping comments).

The following actions are explicitly forbidden:

  * Insulting, demeaning, hateful, or threatening remarks.
  * Discrimination based on age, disability, gender, nationality, race, religion, sexuality, or similar personal characteristic.
  * Bullying or systematic harassment.
  * Unwelcome sexual advances.
  * Incitement to any of these.

## Where does the Code of Conduct apply?

If you participate in or contribute to the VRTK ecosystem in any way, you are encouraged to follow the Code of Conduct while doing so.

Explicit enforcement of the Code of Conduct applies to the official mediums operated by the VRTK project:

* The official GitHub projects and code reviews.
* The official VRTK slack channel.

Other VRTK activities (such as conferences, meetups, and other unofficial forums) are encouraged to adopt this Code of Conduct. Such groups must provide their own contact information.

Project maintainers may remove, edit, or reject comments, commits, code, wiki edits, issues, and other contributions that are not aligned to this Code of Conduct.

Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be reported by emailing: hello@vrtk.io. All complaints will be reviewed and investigated and will result in a response that is deemed necessary and appropriate to the circumstances. **All reports will be kept confidential**.

**The goal of the Code of Conduct is to resolve conflicts in the most harmonious way possible**. We hope that in most cases issues may be resolved through polite discussion and mutual agreement. Bannings and other forceful measures are to be employed only as a last resort. **Do not** post about the issue publicly or try to rally sentiment against a particular individual or group.

## Acknowledgements

This document was based on the Code of Conduct from the Elixir project.

Commit message:

docs(structure): adhere to unity technologies branding guidelines
The use of the wordmark `Unity` has been updated in the README to
clearly adhere to the guidelines laid out by Unity Technologies at
https://unity3d.com/legal/branding_trademarks and a disclaimer
has been added to clearly outline that this repository is not in
affiliation with Unity Technologies.

Any reference to VRTK has been updated to reference the Extend
Reality Ltd company entity as this is the appropriate governing
body of the repository.

The CONTRIBUTING.md has also been updated to remove the unnecessary
72 character line limit.

The LICENSE.md file has also been updated to extend the copyright
to 2019 as changes have been made in this year as well.

.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md, after:

# Code of Conduct

Contact: hello@extendreality.io

## Why have a Code of Conduct?

As contributors and maintainers of this project, we are committed to providing a friendly, safe and welcoming environment for all, regardless of age, disability, gender, nationality, race, religion, sexuality, or similar personal characteristic.

The goal of the Code of Conduct is to specify a baseline standard of behavior so that people with different social values and communication styles can talk about Extend Reality Ltd products and repositories effectively, productively, and respectfully, even in face of disagreements. The Code of Conduct also provides a mechanism for resolving conflicts in the community when they arise.

## Our Values

These are the values Extend Reality Ltd developers and repository contributors should aspire to:

  * Be friendly and welcoming
  * Be patient
    * Remember that people have varying communication styles and that not everyone is using their native language. (Meaning and tone can be lost in translation.)
  * Be thoughtful
    * Productive communication requires effort. Think about how your words will be interpreted.
    * Remember that sometimes it is best to refrain entirely from commenting.
  * Be respectful
    * In particular, respect differences of opinion. It is important that we resolve disagreements and differing views constructively.
  * Avoid destructive behavior
    * Derailing: stay on topic; if you want to talk about something else, start a new conversation.
    * Unconstructive criticism: don't merely decry the current state of affairs; offer (or at least solicit) suggestions as to how things may be improved.
    * Snarking (pithy, unproductive, sniping comments).

The following actions are explicitly forbidden:

  * Insulting, demeaning, hateful, or threatening remarks.
  * Discrimination based on age, disability, gender, nationality, race, religion, sexuality, or similar personal characteristic.
  * Bullying or systematic harassment.
  * Unwelcome sexual advances.
  * Incitement to any of these.

## Where does the Code of Conduct apply?

If you participate in or contribute to the Extend Reality Ltd ecosystem in any way, you are encouraged to follow the Code of Conduct while doing so.

Explicit enforcement of the Code of Conduct applies to the official mediums operated by the Extend Reality Ltd project:

* The official GitHub projects and code reviews.
* The official slack channels.
* The official forums.

Other Extend Reality Ltd product and company activities (such as conferences, meetups, and other unofficial forums) are encouraged to adopt this Code of Conduct. Such groups must provide their own contact information.

Project maintainers may remove, edit, or reject comments, commits, code, wiki edits, issues, and other contributions that are not aligned to this Code of Conduct.

Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be reported by emailing: hello@extendreality.io. All complaints will be reviewed and investigated and will result in a response that is deemed necessary and appropriate to the circumstances. **All reports will be kept confidential**.

**The goal of the Code of Conduct is to resolve conflicts in the most harmonious way possible**. We hope that in most cases issues may be resolved through polite discussion and mutual agreement. Bannings and other forceful measures are to be employed only as a last resort. **Do not** post about the issue publicly or try to rally sentiment against a particular individual or group.

## Acknowledgements

This document was based on the Code of Conduct from the Elixir project.
