README.md, before:

[![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1029673/48707109-4d876080-ebf6-11e8-9476-4f084246771d.png)](README.md)

> ### Malimbe
> A collection of tools to simplify writing public API components in Unity.

[![Waffle](https://img.shields.io/badge/project-backlog-78bdf2.svg)][Waffle]

## Introduction

Malimbe is a collection of tools to simplify writing public API components in Unity.

## Getting Started

* Download or clone this repository.
* Build the solution in Visual Studio or via MSBuild (in `Release` configuration).
* The `UnityPackaging` project's output folder contains all the files necessary in a Unity project. Copy the output into your project's `Assets` folder.
* Anywhere in your Unity project [add a `FodyWeavers.xml` file][FodyWeavers].
* Configure the various weavers Malimbe offers, e.g.:
  ```xml
  <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

  <Weavers>
      <Malimbe.FodyRunner>
        <LogLevel>Error</LogLevel>
      </Malimbe.FodyRunner>
      <Malimbe.FieldToProperty/>
      <Malimbe.ClearPropertyMethod>
        <NamespaceFilter>^VRTK</NamespaceFilter>
      </Malimbe.ClearPropertyMethod>
      <Malimbe.ValidatePropertiesMethod>
        <NamespaceFilter>^VRTK</NamespaceFilter>
      </Malimbe.ValidatePropertiesMethod>
      <Malimbe.XmlDocumentationToFieldTooltip>
        <NamespaceFilter>^VRTK</NamespaceFilter>
      </Malimbe.XmlDocumentationToFieldTooltip>
  </Weavers>
  ```
  As with any Fody weaver configuration the order of weavers is important in case a weaver should be applying to the previous weaver's changes.

## What's in the Box

Malimbe is a _collection_ of tools. Each project represents a solution to a specific issue:

* `FodyRunner`: A standalone library that allows running Fody without MSBuild or Visual Studio.
  * Use the XML element `LogLevel` to specify which log messages should be sent to the logger instance. Valid values are

    * `None` (or don't specify `LogLevel`)
    * `Debug`
    * `Info`
    * `Warning`
    * `Error`
    * `All`

    Separate multiple levels by using multiple XML elements or separate inside an XML element by using any form of whitespace including newlines or commas.
* `FodyRunner.UnityIntegration`: Weaves assemblies in the Unity Editor after Unity compiled them as well as builds. The weaving is done by utilizing `FodyRunner`.
  * The library just needs to be part of a Unity project (configured to only run in the Editor) to be used. It hooks into the various callbacks Unity offers.
* `FieldToProperty.Fody`: A Unity-specific weaver. Creates a property for all fields annotated with `[BacksProperty]`. If a `T SetFieldName(T, T)` method exists it will be called in the property's setter. Adds `[SerializeField]` to the field if not yet specified.
  * Annotate a field with `[BacksProperty]` to use this.
  * Optionally write `T SetFieldName(T, T)` methods that act as a setter replacement on the same type that declares the field (of type `T`). The accessibility level of the method doesn't matter and the name lookup is case insensitive.
* `ClearPropertyMethod.Fody`: A generic weaver. Creates `ClearProperty()` methods for any property that is of reference type and has a setter. Sets the property via its setter to `null` in this new method.
  * The weaver only runs on types that match a namespace. Specify the namespaces to act on via (multiple) XML _elements_ called `NamespaceFilter`. The elements' values are used as ([.NET Standard's][Regex]) regular expressions.
  * In case the method already exists the additional instructions will be weaved into the _end_ of the method. The method name lookup is case insensitive.
* `ValidatePropertiesMethod.Fody`: A generic weaver (though made for Unity). Ensures there's an `public OnValidate()` method for any type that has properties with setters. For each property it does `Property = Property;` in this new method.
  * The weaver only runs on types that match a namespace. Specify the namespaces to act on via (multiple) XML _elements_ called `NamespaceFilter`. The elements' values are used as ([.NET Standard's][Regex]) regular expressions.
  * Instead of `OnValidate` the method name can be customized with the XML _attribute_ `MethodName`, e.g.:
    ```xml
      <Malimbe.ValidatePropertiesMethod MethodName="Validate">
        <NamespaceFilter>^VRTK</NamespaceFilter>
      </Malimbe.ValidatePropertiesMethod>
    ```
  * In case the method already exists the additional instructions will be weaved into the _end_ of the method. The method name lookup is case insensitive.
  * If necessary the method and will be adjusted to override a base type's method of the same name, Accessibility levels are also adjusted as needed.
* `XmlDocumentationToFieldTooltip.Fody`: A generic weaver (though made for Unity). Looks up the XML `<summary>` documentation for any field that is public or uses `[SerializeField]` and ensures `[Tooltip]` is used on that field with that summary.
  * The weaver only runs on types that match a namespace. Specify the namespaces to act on via (multiple) XML _elements_ called `NamespaceFilter`. The elements' values are used as ([.NET Standard's][Regex]) regular expressions.
  * Instead of `TooltipAttribute` the attribute can be customized with the XML _attribute_ `FullAttributeName`, e.g.:
    ```xml
      <Malimbe.XmlDocumentationToFieldTooltip FullAttributeName="Some.Namespace.DocumentationAttribute">
        <NamespaceFilter>^VRTK</NamespaceFilter>
      </Malimbe.XmlDocumentationToFieldTooltip>
    ```
    The attribute needs to have a constructor takes a `string` parameter and nothing else. Note that the attribute name has to be the full type name, i.e. prefixed by the namespace.
  * In case the attribute already exists on the field it will be replaced.
* `UnityPackaging`: Outputs a ready-to-use folder with the appropriate hierarchy to copy into a Unity project's Asset folder. The output includes both the Unity integration libraries as well as all weavers listed above.

## Contributing

We would love to get contributions from you! Please follow the contribution guidelines found in [CONTRIBUTING.md][Contributing].

## Naming

Inspired by [Fody's naming] the name "Malimbe" comes from the [small birds][Malimbus] that belong to the weaver family [Ploceidae].

## Tools and Products Used

 * [Fody]

## License

Code released under the [MIT License][License].

[Waffle]: https://waffle.io/ExtendRealityLtd/Malimbe
[FodyWeavers]: https://github.com/Fody/Fody#add-fodyweaversxml
[Regex]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/base-types/regular-expressions

[Fody's naming]: https://github.com/Fody/Fody#naming
[Malimbus]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malimbus
[Ploceidae]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ploceidae
[Fody]: https://github.com/Fody/Fody

[Contributing]: /.github/CONTRIBUTING.md
[License]: LICENSE.md

Commit message:

chore(Readme): Explain what Malimbe offers
While the Readme explained what Malimbe is in a single sentence that
explanation wasn't detailed enough to make potential users
understand what it offers. The introduction section now also goes
into detail on how Malimbe works by explaining IL weaving and giving
a high-level overview of the various weavers it comes with.

README.md, after:

[![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1029673/48707109-4d876080-ebf6-11e8-9476-4f084246771d.png)](README.md)

> ### Malimbe
> A collection of tools to simplify writing public API components in Unity.

[![Waffle](https://img.shields.io/badge/project-backlog-78bdf2.svg)][Waffle]

## Introduction

Malimbe is a collection of tools to simplify writing public API components in Unity.

By taking the assemblies that are created by build tools and changing the assembly itself, repetetive boilerplate can be reduced, new functionality can be introduced and logic written as part of the source code can be altered. This process is called Intermediate Language (IL) weaving and Malimbe uses [Fody] to do it.

Malimbe helps running Fody and Fody addins without MSBuild or Visual Studio and additionally offers running them inside Unity by integrating with Unity's compilation and build pipeline. Multiple weavers come with Malimbe to help with boilerplate one has to write when creating Unity components that are intended for public consumption. This includes a form of "serialized properties", getting rid of duplicated documentation through XML documentation and the `[Tooltip]` attribute as well as weavers that help with ensuring the API is able to be called from `UnityEvent`s.

## Getting Started

* Download or clone this repository.
* Build the solution in Visual Studio or via MSBuild (in `Release` configuration).
* The `UnityPackaging` project's output folder contains all the files necessary in a Unity project. Copy the output into your project's `Assets` folder.
* Anywhere in your Unity project [add a `FodyWeavers.xml` file][FodyWeavers].
* Configure the various weavers Malimbe offers, e.g.:
  ```xml
  <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

  <Weavers>
      <Malimbe.FodyRunner>
        <LogLevel>Error</LogLevel>
      </Malimbe.FodyRunner>
      <Malimbe.FieldToProperty/>
      <Malimbe.ClearPropertyMethod>
        <NamespaceFilter>^VRTK</NamespaceFilter>
      </Malimbe.ClearPropertyMethod>
      <Malimbe.ValidatePropertiesMethod>
        <NamespaceFilter>^VRTK</NamespaceFilter>
      </Malimbe.ValidatePropertiesMethod>
      <Malimbe.XmlDocumentationToFieldTooltip>
        <NamespaceFilter>^VRTK</NamespaceFilter>
      </Malimbe.XmlDocumentationToFieldTooltip>
  </Weavers>
  ```
  As with any Fody weaver configuration the order of weavers is important in case a weaver should be applying to the previous weaver's changes.

## What's in the Box

Malimbe is a _collection_ of tools. Each project represents a solution to a specific issue:

* `FodyRunner`: A standalone library that allows running Fody without MSBuild or Visual Studio.
  * Use the XML element `LogLevel` to specify which log messages should be sent to the logger instance. Valid values are

    * `None` (or don't specify `LogLevel`)
    * `Debug`
    * `Info`
    * `Warning`
    * `Error`
    * `All`

    Separate multiple levels by using multiple XML elements or separate inside an XML element by using any form of whitespace including newlines or commas.
* `FodyRunner.UnityIntegration`: Weaves assemblies in the Unity Editor after Unity compiled them as well as builds. The weaving is done by utilizing `FodyRunner`.
  * The library just needs to be part of a Unity project (configured to only run in the Editor) to be used. It hooks into the various callbacks Unity offers.
* `FieldToProperty.Fody`: A Unity-specific weaver. Creates a property for all fields annotated with `[BacksProperty]`. If a `T SetFieldName(T, T)` method exists it will be called in the property's setter. Adds `[SerializeField]` to the field if not yet specified.
  * Annotate a field with `[BacksProperty]` to use this.
  * Optionally write `T SetFieldName(T, T)` methods that act as a setter replacement on the same type that declares the field (of type `T`). The accessibility level of the method doesn't matter and the name lookup is case insensitive.
* `ClearPropertyMethod.Fody`: A generic weaver. Creates `ClearProperty()` methods for any property that is of reference type and has a setter. Sets the property via its setter to `null` in this new method.
  * The weaver only runs on types that match a namespace. Specify the namespaces to act on via (multiple) XML _elements_ called `NamespaceFilter`. The elements' values are used as ([.NET Standard's][Regex]) regular expressions.
  * In case the method already exists the additional instructions will be weaved into the _end_ of the method. The method name lookup is case insensitive.
* `ValidatePropertiesMethod.Fody`: A generic weaver (though made for Unity). Ensures there's an `public OnValidate()` method for any type that has properties with setters. For each property it does `Property = Property;` in this new method.
  * The weaver only runs on types that match a namespace. Specify the namespaces to act on via (multiple) XML _elements_ called `NamespaceFilter`. The elements' values are used as ([.NET Standard's][Regex]) regular expressions.
  * Instead of `OnValidate` the method name can be customized with the XML _attribute_ `MethodName`, e.g.:
    ```xml
      <Malimbe.ValidatePropertiesMethod MethodName="Validate">
        <NamespaceFilter>^VRTK</NamespaceFilter>
      </Malimbe.ValidatePropertiesMethod>
    ```
  * In case the method already exists the additional instructions will be weaved into the _end_ of the method. The method name lookup is case insensitive.
  * If necessary the method and will be adjusted to override a base type's method of the same name, Accessibility levels are also adjusted as needed.
* `XmlDocumentationToFieldTooltip.Fody`: A generic weaver (though made for Unity). Looks up the XML `<summary>` documentation for any field that is public or uses `[SerializeField]` and ensures `[Tooltip]` is used on that field with that summary.
  * The weaver only runs on types that match a namespace. Specify the namespaces to act on via (multiple) XML _elements_ called `NamespaceFilter`. The elements' values are used as ([.NET Standard's][Regex]) regular expressions.
  * Instead of `TooltipAttribute` the attribute can be customized with the XML _attribute_ `FullAttributeName`, e.g.:
    ```xml
      <Malimbe.XmlDocumentationToFieldTooltip FullAttributeName="Some.Namespace.DocumentationAttribute">
        <NamespaceFilter>^VRTK</NamespaceFilter>
      </Malimbe.XmlDocumentationToFieldTooltip>
    ```
    The attribute needs to have a constructor takes a `string` parameter and nothing else. Note that the attribute name has to be the full type name, i.e. prefixed by the namespace.
  * In case the attribute already exists on the field it will be replaced.
* `UnityPackaging`: Outputs a ready-to-use folder with the appropriate hierarchy to copy into a Unity project's Asset folder. The output includes both the Unity integration libraries as well as all weavers listed above.

## Contributing

We would love to get contributions from you! Please follow the contribution guidelines found in [CONTRIBUTING.md][Contributing].

## Naming

Inspired by [Fody's naming] the name "Malimbe" comes from the [small birds][Malimbus] that belong to the weaver family [Ploceidae].

## Tools and Products Used

 * [Fody]

## License

Code released under the [MIT License][License].

[Waffle]: https://waffle.io/ExtendRealityLtd/Malimbe
[FodyWeavers]: https://github.com/Fody/Fody#add-fodyweaversxml
[Regex]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/base-types/regular-expressions

[Fody's naming]: https://github.com/Fody/Fody#naming
[Malimbus]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malimbus
[Ploceidae]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ploceidae
[Fody]: https://github.com/Fody/Fody

[Contributing]: /.github/CONTRIBUTING.md
[License]: LICENSE.md
